In this video we're going to be
using the Dissolve tool.
The dissolve tool can dissolve
the boundaries between features
within a layer and it can also
dissolve the boundaries based on
the attributes of those
features.
So within our merged data set,
we can see that where the
spawning grounds and the current
no take MPA zone overlap, we've
got some boundaries, some lines
in between them.
And we don't want this as we
want it to be all merged
together so that we can see
where the no take zone will be
during the spawning months.
So let's open up the Dissolve
tool.
We'll type it into the
Geoprocessing window and open it
up.
Our input feature is just the
merged layer that we created.
We'll drag that in and now we
can choose where we want to save
the new layer that's going to be
created and what we want to name
it.
So we'll make sure it's going
into our Geodatabase and we'll
name it something like spawning
months no take.
So we know it's the no take zone
during the spawning months.
And in the dissolve tool, you
could also set dissolve fields.
And so these are the columns or
the attributes within a layer
that we can use to tell the tool
where to dissolve the
boundaries.
So this isn't relevant for our
layer because we just want to
dissolve all the boundaries or
any boundary that's in between
the no take zone and the
spawning grounds.
But if you had a layer for
example that was a continent,
and then you had the boundaries
for the countries and you also
had the boundaries for the
regions within the countries,
but you didn't want the regional
boundaries anymore.
Then you would need a column
within the table for the data
that tells you what country each
region is in.
And you could use this column
within this dissolve fields to
tell the dissolve tool to
dissolve the boundaries where
the country is the same.
So all the regions in the same
country and it would dissolve
these for us.
We just want to dissolve these
couple boundaries here where the
spawning grounds are
overlapping.
If we don't set a dissolve field
then ArcGIS Pro just
automatically dissolves all
boundaries between the features
in that layer.
So we can just run the tool how
it is and then this is going to
create this new data layer where
we can see those boundaries have
been dissolved.
And so that's how to run the
dissolve tool in Arcgis Pro.
So just remember to hit the save
button.